Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a typed language that tells a computer to perform specific tasks.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK stands for java development kit. It contains tools necessary for programming:
    JAVA, an interpreter that loads all of the java apps
    JRE(java runtime environment) is software that runs on top of the operating system, it contains the JVM.
    JVM (java virtual machine) is a virtual machine that allows any computer to compile and run java source code.
    JAVAC(java compiler) is a compiler that converts source code into bytecode.
    JAR(java archiver) is a library of classes.




What is IDE?
A. an Integrated development environment is software that allows a developer to code efficiently.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. intelliJ, JCreator, JGrasp, Eclipse, VScode, Net Beans


Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Source code->compiler compiles code->becomes bytecode->sent to JVM-> JVM converts it to machine code-> code is executed.

what is class?
A. a class is a blueprint

What is object?
A. an object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
A. an applications entry point is the main method

Why main is static?
A. the main method is static because, as the entry point of a program it must execute without the creation of an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The Object class

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. path is used by the cmd promp to find binary files. classpath is used by the compiler
and JVM to find library files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. an interface can only have method signatures with no body. an abstract class can have both empty
methods and methods with code in the body. An abstract class can also contain fields.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. no abstract classes and interfaces must be inherited from other classes.

what is Access Specifier?
A. an acces specifier is a keyword that determines visibility of classes and attributes.
  ex: public,private, protected, default

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object Oriented Programming is programming that revolves around the creation of objets instead of functions and logic.
    it has 4 pillars:
        inheritance - is the ability of related classes to share attributes.
        Encapsulation - is about restricting access to certain components of an object.
        Abstraction - is hiding certain details and only showing essential information.
        Polymorphism - is the overloading and overwriting of methods.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. a Java package is a bunch of classes that are related and grouped together. you can import them into your code and
to gain access to them. "java.lang" is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Junit, Maven

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. NO, only multiple inheritance of interfaces.


What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Method overloading is when multiple methods have the same name but take different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. exception handling is a way to deal with runtime errors without interrupting the function of the application.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Static is a key word that makes variables and methods belong to the class instead of objects.
static variables and methods can be called with referencing an object. One example is the "main method."

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. the final key word makes variables and methods immutable. a final variable cannot be reassigned,
and a final method cannot be overwritten.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. final is a keyword that makes attributes immutable. finally is used after a try-catch.
the code contained inside will be executed whether an exception is caught or not.

What is a constructor ?
A. a constructor is like a method that executes when an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. yes you can have multiple constructors as long as they take different parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Java will call a default constructor if you do not provide one.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. "this" keyword is used to refer to the current object in a method or constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. super refers to the parent class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. java virtual machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A. No. there is a different jvm for different hardware allowing java itself to be platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
A. java 11 for this project. otherwise, java 8.

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR stands for Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is set of tools that allows software development in java.
JVM is a virtual machine that allows java to compile and run on any hardware.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JRE is the java runtime environment. It is the implementation of the JVM and
it contains all the libraries that support a java application.

What is compile time and run time?
A. compile time when the source code is being converted to bytecode. run time is while the application is running.

What is heap?
A. heap is memory used to store instances of objects in java.

How java manage it's memory?
A. it has a garbage collector that release memory that is not longer being used or referenced.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable, the other two are not. string buffer is thread safe and synchronized.
stringbuilder is not.

What is Singleton class?
A. a singleton is a class that only has one instance.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. serialization is the conversion of an object to a stream so that it can be sent over a network
or saved to a file. deserialization is the process of converting a stream into
an object.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. transient is a keyword that prevents a variable from being serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. while loop checks a condition and then executes code if the condition is met.
a do-while loop first executes code and then checks a condition to determine if it should execute the code again.

What is Enum?
A. is a data type defined by the programmer.

What is Iterator?
A. an object that allows you to traverse data structures.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer takes more memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. Strings exist in the string pool. There is only one instance of any string literal at a time.
and it can be referenced by multiple variables. allowing it to be changed could affect the security
of the software. it also helps with caching and optimization.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. it when you call a constructor from within another constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. serial garbage collection uses one thread where as parallel uses multiple threads of garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
A. is "just in time" compiler. it allows parts of the code to be compiled at runtime
improving the performance of java applications.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. objects created in java are stored in heap memory. garbage collection takes
objects that are no longer in use and clears them from memory.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.yes java has a built in garbage collector that executes on its own.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Stack is a linear data structure. heap is a hierarchical data structure.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. is an api that allows examination and modification of methods, classes, and interfaces at runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
A. multi-threading is executing multiple threads at the same time to maximize cpu utilization.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. synchronization allows a developer to control the timing and access to resources by multiple threads.

What is Framework?
A. it is a platform of prewritten code that developers can use for creating applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. Junit TestNG

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. Junit and testNG are java testing frameworks. testng is an upgrade of Junit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. Junit and Maven

what is dependency injection in java?
A. is when a class is dependant on another class or resource.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding uses type information to bind. Dynamic binding uses objects to resolve binding.









